hey guys today we're talking about
microphone confidence and using your
microphone at a gig
now I really struggle when it comes to
talking to a large group of people and I
know a lot of other DJ's out there have
a similar problem so when it comes to
talking on the microphone it's something
I've really had to work out over the
years one thing that's really helped is
producing these YouTube videos talking
to a camera talking to an audience it's
really helped me gain a better
understanding of expressing my ideas and
opinions to an audience if you're
struggling with my confidence try this
exercise grab your microphone and go
stand in front of a mirror or even
better a video camera now just practice
talking just make an announcement or you
can just read some text just being able
to practice talking and practice
articulating what you're trying to say
now if you filmed it go watch back and
see you wave made mistakes or wait could
possibly improve if you just spend the
time practicing it should really help
you improve your ability to talk on the
microphone a few things to think about
when you're talking to a microphone is
be confident try and speak clearly
without stuttering and make sure you
don't speak too quickly you want to make
sure everyone can clearly hear what
you're trying to say now sometimes they
dig a gobby in the middle of making an
announcement and then I'll suddenly lose
my train of thought now one thing I do
to avoid this is if I need to make a
really important announcement I'll just
write it out on my laptop in front of me
and just really straight off the laptop
therefore I don't make any mistakes now
the other question I get a lot is when
should you talk on the microphone now I
try and keep this to a real minimum now
I do think it's really important you
interact with your crowd but I think
maybe the microphone isn't the best way
to do it sometimes stepping out from
behind your DJ booth are actually going
to talk to the people is the best way to
get an interaction with your audience so
I try and keep an announcements on the
microphone to a minimum unless I need to
give everyone some important information
or possibly the occasional song request
nothing kills the mood more on the dance
floor than absolute silence so what I
try and do is when I'm making an
announcement I like to talk over music
so what I'll do is if he's coming to the
end of a track all the beginning of the
next track I'll set up a loop in the
music and then talk over that more like
this so we've got the end of the track
now coming up to the end of the song and
I start my loop
and then I can go into the microphone
and talk over the music letting the
audience know any information or
announcement that they need to know
about and then when I'm finished I can
start and drop in the next track and
continue without a silence it keeps the
energy on the dancefloor going and keeps
the flow of the music so that's it for
this video if you have any questions
please let me know in the comments below
also if you struggle yourself with
microphone confidence and talking on the
microphone do you have any techniques to
try and get around that so yeah that's
it for this video and as always thanks
for watching